influxctl 2.4.1 (#5276)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/cli/influxctl/query.md

---
title: influxctl query
description: >

>   The `influxctl query` command command queries data from InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated

Reviewer: double command?
```suggestion
  The `influxctl query` command queries data from InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated
```

  using SQL and prints results as a table or JSON.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud_dedicated:
    parent: influxctl
weight: 201
metadata: [influxctl 2.4.0+]
related:
  - /influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/sql/
  - /influxdb/cloud-dedicated/query-data/
---

The `influxctl query` command queries data from {{< product-name >}} using SQL
and prints results as a table or JSON.

Provide the SQL query in one of the following ways:

- a string on the command line
- a path to a file that contains the query
- as a single dash (`-`) to read the query from stdin

{{% note %}}
#### Important to note

- This command supports only one query per execution.
- This command supports only SQL queries; not InfluxQL.
- This command is not meant to be a full, feature-rich query tool.
  It's meant for debug, triage, and basic data exploration.
{{% /note %}}

### InfluxDB connection configuration

> Your {{< product-name omit=" Clustered" >}} cluster host and port should be

Reviewer 2: > should be

They are or I need to add them?

Author: They're part of the sample config. They aren't necessarily required with Dedicated, unless you want to use these `write` and `query` commands.

configured in your in your `influxctl`
[connection profile](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/cli/influxctl/#configure-connection-profiles).
By default TLS and port 443 are used.

> You can also set a default database and token to use for the `query` and `write`
> commands in your connection profile, but these can also be passed with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set a default database and token to use for the `query` and `write`
commands in your connection profile or pass them with the
```

command using the `--database` and `--token` flags.
Command line flags override settings in the connection profile. 

### Output format

The `--format` option lets you print the output in other formats.

> By default, the 'table' format is used, but the 'json' format is
> available for programmatic parsing by other tooling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default is 'table' format, but the 'json' format is
available for programmatic parsing by other tooling.
```

| `-h` | `--help`     | Output command help                                          |

{{% caption %}}
_Also see [`influxctl` global flags](/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/cli/influxctl/#global-flags)._
{{% /caption %}}

## Examples

- [Query InfluxDB v3 and return results in table format](#query-influxdb-v3-and-return-results-in-table-format)
- [Query InfluxDB v3 and return results in JSON format](#query-influxdb-v3-and-return-results-in-json-format)

In the examples below, replace the following:

- {{% code-placeholder-key %}}`DATABASE_TOKEN`{{% /code-placeholder-key %}}:
  Database token with read access to the queried database
- {{% code-placeholder-key %}}`DATABASE_NAME`{{% /code-placeholder-key %}}:
  Name of the database to query

### Query InfluxDB v3 and return results in table format

{{% code-placeholders "DATABASE_(TOKEN|NAME)" %}}

{{< code-tabs-wrapper >}}
{{% code-tabs %}}
[string](#)
[file](#)
[stdin](#)
{{% /code-tabs %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
{{% influxdb/custom-timestamps %}}
```sh
influxctl query \
  --token DATABASE_TOKEN \
  --database DATABASE_NAME \
  "SELECT * FROM home WHERE time >= '2022-01-01T08:00:00Z' LIMIT 5"

> ```

Reviewer: Is it worth showing one example without the token and database flags?

Author: Sure, I'll add one.
